# Self-Organized-Energy-Efficient-Cross-Layer-Optimization-for-Device-to-Device-Communication-in-Heterogenous Cellular Networks
## Summary
Device to device (D2D) communication brings numerous benefits for future heterogeneous cellular networks. However, an energy-effcient design of such D2D communications is a critical challenge due to the cochannel deployment and limited power of users. We present an energy-efficient self-organized cross-layer optimization scheme, which aims to maximize the D2D communication energy-effciency without jeopardizing the quality of service (QoS) requirements of other tiers. Specifically, we model the cross-layer optimization, which includes resource block (RB) and power allocation using a noncooperative game. In the proposed scheme, each D2D transmitter user, which is a player in the game, operates in a self-organizing manner and selects the RBs and the power levels for enhancing its energy effciency while maintaining the QoS requirements of other heterogeneous parties. Concerning the computationally intense nature of the global optimization problem, we decompose the problem into two subproblems: the RB allocation and the power allocation, and solve them iteratively in a game-theoretic manner. Simulation results demonstrate superior energy effciency performance of the proposed scheme over conventional schemes. In addition, it is also shown via simulation that the performance of the proposed scheme degrades if the channel state information is not precisely available.



